Now it's finally time to work on that react application we have as a frontend here which you also
find attached to this lecture again in case you skipped the other modules, so react application will not work
on the code here too much because this is no react course and now I'm interested in signing users up.
This is done in the app.js file there and there in the sign up handler. Here we send the request
for creating a new user
but this is of course a request from the rest API world.
You learned that from now on, there only is /graphql for all our API requests
and then here this has to be a post request.
The type is still application json and this needs to be set but the body will now be in the graphql
query language and for this, I'll create a new constant which I'll name graphql query,
the name is up to you though and this will be a javascript object where you need to have a query key,
that is required even for mutations.
The value here then is a string which you create with double back ticks, back ticks so that you can write
multiline string, single quotation marks will not do it
and here you add mutation to define that you're running a mutation now, curly braces and now the
name of the mutation and
the name of the mutation you want to execute is create user.
Essentially you could just copy this query here
now, this is what you could copy and what you could move into your query here.
Now of course we need to replace these values with the values we fetch from the user input though and
we can do that by using dollar sign curly braces in this back
tick enclosed string because this is a template literal and this allows us to inject values.
Now just make sure you keep the double quotation marks around and the injected values
otherwise this will fail because this query language here needs to enclose strings in double quotation
marks.
Now the email can be retrieved just as we retrieve it down there, so we can copy that code up there
and the same of course also for the name and the password, so for the name,
we also inject the value of dollar sign curly braces and we use that syntax from below
and the same for the password.
Let's copy that and replace this with the injected password code.
Now here I am retrieving ID and email,
it's up to you, we don't need any of the data,
I'll leave it like this and now this is the object I want to stringify,
so my graphql query object.
Now I don't need to check the status code here because that will not be set,
it's either 200 or 500,
I'll cut it here and I'll remove that and in the response data then block here, where I have the parsed
request, response body, there
I can now check if response data has errors and there on the first error, I could check for the status
field.
So here I will check if response data has errors, if
that's the case I'll check if response state errors and there the first element has a status field
just as I explained,
accessing this field and if that is equal to 422 and then I can throw my validation failed error.
Maybe we have other kinds of errors so I'll check another of thing here in case we don't throw that first
error,
I'll check just for the existence of errors
and there I would throw another new error where I just throw
user creation failed, like this.
Now after these error checks, I'm printing my response data here
and actually we should have all we need to sign users up now.
So let's run our frontend server with npm start,
it runs on localhost 3000
so let's open that here and there,
let's navigate to the sign up page and create a new user.
Now this is an email address which is already taken
and actually therefore, I should fail doing that.
Let me click sign up and indeed I get an error
but this is a different error than you might expect. It's an error here where my method is not allowed and
this can be a tricky thing to fix if you're brand new to graphql.
Well the reason for this error is we get this error
actually as a response to our options request here, not to our post request.
Now you might remember that I explained that the browser sends an options request before it sends the
post, patch, put, delete or so on request.
The problem is express graphql automatically declines anything which is not a post or get request,
so the options request is denied.
The solution is to go to that middleware where I setup my cors headers and there, I check if my request
method is equal to options and if it is an options request, then here I'll return res send status
200,
so I'll simply send an empty response with a status code of 200.
I return so that this code is not executed and therefore options requests never make it to the graphql
endpoint but still get a valid response.
And with that if I now go back to my frontend, I clear my errors and sign up again,
now the user creation fails but now it simply fails because if you look into our data, we see that the
user exists already and that is what we expected
and now if we take a valid email address which is not taken yet, it actually succeeds
and here is the response I get back from graphql, my data that is provided automatically for the
create user query, the
to data fields I requested. And this is how we connect the frontend to our backend by simply sending
a post request with a valid graphql query expression.